ARA noise docs from handbook (#6556)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/privacy-sandbox/attribution-reporting/understanding-noise/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/doc-post.njk'

> title: 'Understanding noise'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Understanding noise in summary reports'
```

subhead: >
  What noise means, where it is added, and how it impacts your measurement efforts.
description: >
  What noise means, where it is added, and how it impacts your measurement efforts.
date: 2022-06-23
updated: 2022-06-23
authors:
  - maudn
---

> Data in aggregatable reports is _noised_; in other words, for a small percentage of cases, random data is sent instead of real reports/data. This practice preserves user privacy by preventing the joining of user identity across sites. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Summary reports are the result of the aggregation of _aggregatable reports_. 
When aggregatable reports are batched by a collector and processed by the aggregation service, noise—a random amount of data—is added to the resulting summary reports. 
Noise is added to protect user privacy. The goal of this mechanism is to have a framework which can support [differentially private](https://github.com/WICG/conversion-measurement-api/blob/main/AGGREGATE.md#differential-privacy) measurement.

```

* The current text is more accurate for event-level reports - Suggestion to replace it with text that's more accurate for aggregatable / summary reports
* Could we consider adding this diagram?
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bU0a_njpDcRd9vDR0AJjwJjrf3Or8vAzyfuK8JZDEfo/edit#bookmark=id.kadbfacjv8de

Author: Adding. thanks!

> ## Understanding noise in general

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction to noise in summary reports
```
Nit - feel free to ignore

While adding noise isn’t usually a part of ads measurement today, in many cases the noise added won’t substantially change how you interpret your results. 

> It may help to think about it in the following way:
> Would you be confident taking a certain decision based on certain data if that data wasn't noisy? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It may help to think about it in the following way:
Would you be confident taking a decision based on a certain piece of data if that data wasn't noisy? 
```

For example, would an advertiser be confident in changing their campaign strategy or budgets, based on the fact that Campaign A had 15 conversions and Campaign B had 16? 

> If the answer is no, noise is irrelevant. You would design your data collection in a way that enables you to answer yes to the question above. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the answer is no, noise is irrelevant.
```

To disambiguate the content below

What you will want to do is configure your API usage in such a way that:

1. The answer to the question above is yes.
1. Noise is managed in a way that doesn't significantly impact your ability to make a decision based on certain data. You can approach this as follows: for an expected minimum number of conversions, you want to keep the noise in the collected metric below a certain %.

> In this section and the following, we'll outline strategies for option 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section and the following, we'll outline strategies to achieve 2.
```
